A solid backup plan can pay off in these instances:
When a system malfunctions and files are lost
When a user or the system administrator deletes or corrupts a file by accident
When a catastrophic disaster occurs
Even with disk redundancy, you still need to back up files.
RAID provides fault tolerance, but it does not help when a disaster occurs or when a file is corrupted or accidentally removed.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux has several low-level backup options that can handle files or disks on a per-system basis, such as dd, tar, cpio, and dump.
Use of these tools alone is not considered a solid enterprise backup strategy.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux includes two open source enterprise-level backup solutions: Amanda and Bacula.
These solutions use a client/server architecture and are considered usable for enterprise backup purposes.
There are many other enterprise-class backup solutions that work with Red Hat Enterprise Linux, such as Symantec NetBackup and Arconis.
Copyright ©2015 Red Hat, Inc.

0:41

Choosing a Backup Strategy
Choosing the right solution is up to the individual organization’s needs, budget, and expertise.
A good enterprise backup solution for a Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment should:
Support Red Hat Enterprise Linux without much effort
Use client/server architecture
Features that are nice to have:
Support for multiple platforms
API or command line interface for scripting
Ability to take media offline and track that media
Copyright ©2015 Red Hat, Inc.

0:44

Backups and Virtualization
Virtual systems are no longer tied to hardware.
Baremetal restoration is no longer required.
Baremetal systems only need to run as hypervisors.
Baremetal system do not need to store stateful data.
A virtual system is essentially the same as a file on disk.
There are a myriad of methods for creating full backups of entire systems.
Real-time replication of entire systems is now possible.
Entire systems can fail between physical locations without a restore.
Copyright ©2015 Red Hat, Inc.
	
The ability to restore specific files on demand is still required.
Data deduplication economizes space and I/O, by not backing up data twice, when backing up an entire virtual disk or file system.

isasters can be classified in two broad categories:
Natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, or earthquakes.
You cannot prevent a natural disaster.
You can reduce or avoid losses with good mitigation planning.
Man-made disasters such as hazardous material spills, infrastructure failure, or bio-terrorism.
Surveillance and mitigation planning are invaluable for avoiding or lessening losses.


43% of companies that experience a major loss of business data never reopen.
29% of companies that experience a major data loss close within 2 years.
Preparing for continuation or recovery of systems must be taken very seriously.
Involves a significant investment of time and money
Aims to ensure minimal losses if a disruptive event occurs
A disaster recovery plan (DRP) is the overall plan to recover from a disaster.
A DRP includes planning for the resumption of applications, data, hardware, electronic communications (such as networking), and other IT infrastructure.
Control measures are steps or mechanisms that reduce or eliminate various threats.

Preventive - Aimed at preventing an event from occurring.
Detective - Aimed at detecting or discovering unwanted events.
Corrective - Aimed at correcting or restoring the system after a disaster or an event.

Define DR objectives that indicate key metrics for various business processes.
Two commonly defined objectives are:
Recovery point objective (RPO)
Recovery time objective (RTO)

Recovery point objective (RPO) - Maximum tolerable period in which data might be lost from an IT service due to a major incident.
RPO gives systems designers a limit to work to.

Recovery time objective (RTO) - Duration of time and a service level within which a business process must be restored after a disaster (or disruption) in order to avoid unacceptable consequences associated with a break in business continuity.
RTO can include time for trying to fix the problem without a recovery, the recovery itself, testing, and communication to users.
RTO is the longest period of time the business can do without the IT Service in question.
Invoking a recovery plan relies on decision making and the availability of resources to execute the plan.
RTO must account for the time required to set the recovery plan in motion.

Incomplete RTOs and RPOs can quickly derail a disaster recovery plan.
Every item in the DR plan requires a defined recovery point and time objective.
Failure to create RTOs and RPOs may lead to significant problems that can extend the disaster’s impact.
After RTO and RPO metrics are mapped to IT infrastructure, the DR planner can determine the most suitable recovery strategy for each system.

Backups made to tape and sent offsite at regular intervals.
Backups made to disk onsite and automatically copied to an offsite disk, or made directly to an offsite disk.
Replication of data at the disk frame level to an offsite location over a high-speed WAN, which overcomes the need to restore the data (only the systems need to be restored or synchronized).
Use of high-availability systems which keep both the data and systems replicated offsite.
Enables continuous access or brief cutover time to systems and data.
Doable using virtualization for all systems in an enterprise where baremetal systems are only used as hypervisors.
Use an outsourced disaster recovery provider that provides a stand-by site and systems.


Disaster Recovery: Avoiding Disaster
Local mirrors of systems and/or data
Disk protection technology, such as RAID
Surge protectors
Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and/or backup generator
Fire prevention/mitigation systems, such as alarms and fire extinguishers
Strong physical security to limit access to hardware
Adequate heating or cooling system, even during power outages